Hello everyone and welcome to the tree methods consulting project you've been contracted by the Purina
dog food company and flown out to their headquarters in St. Louis Missouri.
So you've been hired by this dog food company to help them try to predict why some batches of their
dog food are spoiling much quicker than intended.
Unfortunately this dog food company hasn't upgraded to the latest machinery meaning that the amounts
of the five preservative chemicals that they're using can vary a lot.
But you want to answer the question Which of these chemicals is having the strongest effect.
So the dog food company first mixes up a batch of preservative and then that preservative contains four
different preservative chemicals labeled A B C and D and then it's completed with some sort of filler
chemical.
Now the food scientists working at this dog food company believe that one of the actual preservatives
that is label either A B C or D is causing the problem of the dog food spoiling early.
But they need your help to figure out which one of these chemicals that is.
So you're going to be using machine learning with random force to find out which parameter had the most
predictive power.
Thus finding out which chemical causes the early spoiling.
So you're going to create a model that tries to predict which dog food samples will spoil and then find
out if you can decide which of the features in this case the preservative chemicals is the problem.
So the data that they presented you with looks like this.
They have the four preservative chemicals that are not the filler.
So a preservative A B C and D and the actual value is the percentage of the preservative A in that particular
mix then you have a label column of spoiled indicating whether or not that dog food batch was spoiled
early so think really carefully about what this problem is really asking you to solve.
In fact you don't actually need to perform such a complicated machine learning tasks like random forest.
But I want to reflect a reality and consulting projects where sometimes a company asks you to solve
a project where you didn't need full blown machine learning to do it but you could solve it anyways
using that.
So while we will use machine learning to solve this it actually won't be your typical train test split
workflow.
If this confuses you skip ahead to the solution code along but try your best to figure out which actual
chemical is causing the early spoilage.
All right.
Best of luck on the project and I will see you at the next lecture where we'll go through an example
solution to solving this actual task.